I moved to America twelve years ago with
my wife Taryn our two kids actually
truthfully we moved to Los Angeles
thinking we're moving to America but
then it's a it's it's a short plane ride
from Los Angeles to America I got it at
12 years ago and when I got here I was
told various things like Americans don't
get irony have you come across this idea
it's not true I've traveled a whole
length and rats this country I have
found no evidence that Americans don't
get irony it's one of those cultural
myths like the British are reserved I
don't know why people think this we've
invaded every country with encounters
[Applause]
but it's not - Americans don't get irony
but I I just want you to know that
that's what people are saying about you
behind your back
you know when you leave living rooms in
Europe people say thankfully nobody was
ironic in your presence but I knew that
Americans get irony when I came across
that legislation No Child Left Behind
because whoever thought of that title
gets irony
don't they because
because it's leaving millions of
children behind now I can see that's not
a very attractive name for legislation
millions of children that care and I can
see that country what's the plan while
we propose leave millions of children
behind them and here's how it's going to
work and it's it's working beautifully
in some parts the countries 60% of kids
drop out of high school in the Native
American community is it's 80 percent of
kids if we have that number one estimate
is it would create a net gain to the US
economy over ten years of nearly a
trillion dollars from an economic point
- this is good math isn't it that we
should do this it actually costs an
enormous amount to mop up the damage
from the dropout crisis but the dropout
crisis is just the tip of an iceberg
what it doesn't count or all the kids
who are in school but being disengaged
from it who don't enjoy it who don't get
any real benefit from it and the reason
is not that we're not spending enough
money America spends more money on
education than most of the countries
class sizes are smaller than in many
countries and there are hundreds of
initiatives every year to try and
improve education the trouble is it's
all going in the wrong direction there
are three principles on which human life
flourishes and they are contradicted by
the culture of Education under which
most teachers have to labor and most
students have to endure the first is
this that human beings are naturally
different and diverse can I ask you how
many of you have got children of your
own okay or grandchildren how about two
children or more right and the rest of
you have seen such children
small people one thing about I will make
you a bet and I'm confident I will win
the bet if you've got two children or
more I bet you they are completely
different from each other aren't they
something you would never confuse them
would you like which one of you remind
me your mother I are going to do some
color coding systems so we don't get
cooties education under No Child Left
Behind is based on not diversity but
conformity what schools are encouraged
to is to find out what kids can do
across a very narrow spectrum of
achievement one of the effects of No
Child Left Behind has been to narrow the
focus onto these so-called STEM
disciplines they're very important I'm
not here to argue against science and
math on the country they're necessary
but they're not sufficient a real
education has to give equal weight to
the arts the humanities to physical
education an awful lot of kids
one estimate in America currently is
there's something like 10% of kids
getting on that way are being diagnosed
with various conditions under the broad
title of attention deficit disorder ADHD
I'm not saying there's no such thing I
just don't believe it's an epidemic like
this if you sit kids down
hour after hour doing low-grade clerical
work don't be surprised if they start to
fidget
children are not for the most part
suffering from a psychological condition
they're suffering from childhood and and
I know this because I spent my early
life as a child I went through the whole
thing kids prosper best with a broad
curriculum that celebrates their various
talents not just a small range them and
by the way the arts aren't just
important because they improve math
scores they're important because they
speak to parts of children's being which
are otherwise untouched the second thing
the second principle that drives human
life and flourishing is curiosity if you
can light the spark of curiosity in a
child they will learn without any
further assistance very often children
are natural learners it's a real
achievement to put that particular
ability out or to stifle it curiosity is
the kind of engine of achievement now
the reason I say this is because one of
the effects of the current culture here
if I can say so has been too deep
professionalize teachers there is no
system in the world or any school in the
country
that's better than its teachers teachers
are the lifeblood of the success of
schools but teaching is a creative
professional teaching properly conceived
is not a delivery system you know you're
not there just to pass on received
information great teachers do that but
what great teachers also do is mentor
stimulate provoke engage you see in the
end education is about learning if
there's no learning going on there's no
education going on and people can spend
an awful lot of time discussing
education when I'd ever discussing
learning the whole point of Education is
to get people to learn a friend of mine
old friend actually very old is dead
that's a that's as old as it gets I'm
afraid so
but a wonderful guy he was it wonderful
philosopher he used to talk about the
difference between the task and
achievement senses of verbs you know he
can be engaged in the activity of
something but not really been achieving
it it's like dieting it's a very good
example you know there he is he's
dieting is he losing any weight not
ready teaching is a word like that you
know say there's Deborah she's she's in
room 34 she's teaching but if nobody's
learning anything she may be engaged in
the task of teaching but not actually
fulfilling it the role of a teacher is
to facilitate learning that's it and
part of the problem is I think that the
culture of the dominant culture of
Education has come to focus on not
teaching and learning but testing now
testing is important standardized tests
have a place but they should not be the
dominant culture of Education they
should be diagnostic they should help
if I go for a medical examination I want
some standardized tests I do you know I
want to know what my cholesterol level
is compared to everybody else's on a
standard scale I don't to be told on
some scale my doctor invented in the car
your caleche what I call level Orange
really is that good we don't know
but all that should support learning
it shouldn't obstruct it which of course
it often does so in place of curiosity
what we have is a culture of compliance
our children and teachers are encouraged
to follow kind of routine algorithms
rather than to excite that power of
imagination and curiosity and the third
principle is says that human life is
inherently creative it's why we all have
different resumes we create our lives
and we can recreate them as we go
through them it's the common currency of
being a human being it's why human
culture is so interesting and diverse
and dynamic I mean other animals may
well have imaginations and creativity
but it's not so much it in evidence is
it as ours I mean you may have a dog you
know and your dog may get depressed
you know but it doesn't listen to
Radiohead as they sit staring out the
window with a bottle of Jack Daniels and
you say would you like to come for a
walk is that no I'm fine
you go I'll bite okay but take pictures
we all create our own lives through this
restless process of imagining alternates
and possibility isn't what one of the
roles of education is to awaken and
develop these powers of creativity
instead what we have is a culture of
standardization now it doesn't have to
be that way it really doesn't Finland
regularly comes out top in math science
and reading now we only know that's what
they do well not because that's all it's
being tested currently that's one of the
problems of the tests they don't look
for other things that matter just as
much the thing about working Finland is
this
they don't obsess about those
disciplines they have a very broad
approach to education which includes
humanity is physical education the arts
second there is no standardized testing
in Finland I mean there's a bit but it's
not what gets people up in the morning
it's not what keeps them at their desks
and the third thing in our meeting
recently with some people from Finland
actual Finnish people and and somebody
from the American system is saying to
the people in Finland what do you do
about the dropout rate in Finland and
they all look a bit bemused and said
well we don't have one why would you
drop out if people are in trouble we get
some quite quickly and help them and we
support them now people always say well
you know you can't compare Finland to
America no I think there's a population
of around five million in Finland but
you can compare it to a state in America
many states in America have fewer people
in them than that I mean I've been to
some states in American I was the only
person there
really I I was asked to lock up when I
left and but what all the
high-performing systems in the world do
is currently what is not evident sadly
across the systems in America I mean as
a whole one is this
they individualize teaching and learning
they recognize that its students who
were learning and the system has to
engage them their curiosity their
individuality and their creativity
that's how you get them to learn the
second is that they attribute a very
high status to the teaching profession
they recognize that you can't improve
education if you don't pick great people
to teach and if you don't keep giving
them constant support and professional
development investing in professional
development is not a cost it's an
investment and every other country
that's succeeding well knows that
whether it's Australia Canada South
Korea Singapore Hong Kong or Shanghai
they know that to be the case and the
third is they devolve responsibility to
the school level for getting the job
done you see there's a big difference
here between going into a mode of
command and control in education that's
what happens in some systems no central
governments decide or state governments
decide they know best and they're going
to tell you what to do the trouble is
that education doesn't go on in the
committee rooms of our legislative
buildings it happens in classrooms and
schools and the people who do it are the
teachers and the students and if you
remove their discretion it stops working
you have to put it back to the people
there's wonderful work happening in this
country but I have to say it's happening
in spite of the dominant culture of
Education not because of it it's like
people are saving into a headwind all
the time and the reason I think is this
that many of the current policies are
based on mechanistic conceptions of
Education it's like education is an
industrial process that can be improved
just by having better data and somewhere
in I think the back of the mind of some
policymakers is this idea that if we
fine-tune it well enough if we just get
it right it'll all hum along perfectly
into the future it won't and it never
did these point is that education is not
a mechanical system it's a human system
it's about people people who are either
do want to learn or don't want to learn
every student who drops out of school
has a reason for it which is rooted in
their own biography they may find it
boring they may find it irrelevant they
may find that it's at odds with the life
they're living outside of school there
are trends but the stories are always
unique I was at a meeting recently in
Los Angeles of they're called
alternative education programs these are
programs designed to get kids back into
education they have certain common
features they're very personalized
they have strong support for the
teachers close links with the community
and the broad and diverse curriculum and
often programs which involve students
outside school as well as inside school
and they work what's interesting to me
is these are called alternative
education
you know and all the evidence my
round-the-world is if we all if we all
did that there'd be no need for the
alternative
so I think we have to embrace a
different metaphor we have to recognize
that it's a human system and there are
conditions under which people thrive and
conditions under which they don't we are
after all organic creatures and the
culture of the school is absolutely
essential culture is an organic term
isn't it not far from where I live
is a place called Death Valley Death
Valley is the hottest driest place in
America and nothing grows there nothing
grows there because it doesn't rain
hence Death Valley in the winter of 2004
it rained in Death Valley seven inches
of rain fell over a very short period
and in the spring of 2005 there was a
phenomenon the whole floor of Death
Valley
was carpeted in flowers for a while what
it proved is is that Death Valley isn't
dead it's dormant right beneath the
surface are these seeds of possibility
waiting for the right conditions to come
about and with organic systems if the
conditions are right life is inevitable
it happens all the time you take an area
a school a district you change the
conditions give people a different sense
of possibility at different set of
expectations a broader range of
opportunities you cherish and value the
relationships between teachers and
learners you offer people the discretion
to be creative and to innovate in what
they do and schools that were once
bereft spring to life great leaders know
that the real role of leadership in
education and I think it's true at the
national level the state level at the
school level is not and should not be
command and control the real role of
leadership is climate control creating a
climate of possibility and if you do
that people will rise to it and achieve
things that you completely did not
anticipate and couldn't have expected
there's a wonderful quote from Benjamin
Franklin
there are three sorts of people in the
world those who are movable people who
don't get it they don't want to get it
they're not knowing about it there are
people who are movable people who see
the need for change and a prepared to
listen to it and there are people who
move people who make things happen and
if we can encourage more people that
will be a movement and if the movement
is strong enough that's in the best
sense of the word a revolution and
that's what we need thank you very much
you